RLHF Blog Post (#703)
huggingface/blog: intro-to-rlhf.md

            <span class="bg-gray-100 dark:bg-gray-700 rounded px-1 text-gray-600 text-sm font-mono">guest</span>
        </div>
    </a>
	 <a href="https://twitter.com/Dahoas1">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/1436695027711893514/JrwAplRE_400x400.jpg?w=200&h=200&f=face" width="100" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>Dahoas1</code>
            <span class="fullname">Alex Havrilla</span>
            <span class="bg-gray-100 dark:bg-gray-700 rounded px-1 text-gray-600 text-sm font-mono">guest</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

[ChatGPT](https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt/) was the next iteration in the rapid progress of LLMs. This model, according to [users](https://www.theverge.com/2022/12/8/23499728/ai-capability-accessibility-chatgpt-stable-diffusion-commercialization), has taken another huge step in language model performance and alignment. Therein, it comes as the most recent verification of reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) being a valuable tool to optimize large models on diverse tasks that are challenging to specify numerically.
    

> This success comes in the presence of an ambiguity in defining the tasks that language models need to do. The promise of language models has always been clear – a fast way to generate diverse and compelling text on any topic, but their development has often been intertwined with questions of how to define “good” performance. Good performance for a language model is inherently a human problem, which would be understanding what is a loss function that defines any of the following artifacts: a good story, the flavor of informative text, short code snippets in multiple languages, and more.

Author: rewrote intro so ignoring this one

> These questions that define how “good” the application of a language model is are ultimately expressions of human preferences. Human preferences are historically very challenging to encode in computing systems, due to a complex web of ethics and values that are not clear nor equal across populations. **Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback** (RLHF) has emerged as the technique that can map from high-quality, human annotations to models that better match sets of desirable behavior. RLHF has enabled language models to begin to  align a model trained on a general corpus of text data to that of complex human values.

Author: rewrote intro so ignoring this one

> This power of alignment is immensely promising, but often confused by complex system details and interconnected ML models. This blog post attempts to provide a comprehensive conceptual overview of how RLHF operates.

Author: rewrote intro so ignoring this one

These LMs for reward modeling can be both another fine-tuned LM or a LM trained from scratch on the preference data. For example, Anthropic uses a specialized method to train these models from scratch because it was found to be more sample efficient than fine-tuning, but no one variation of reward modeling is considered the clear best choice today.

The training dataset of prompt-generation pairs for the RM is generated by sampling a set of prompts from a predefined dataset (Anthropic’s data generated primarily with a chat tool on Amazon Mechanical Turk is [available](https://huggingface.co/datasets/Anthropic/hh-rlhf) on the Hub, and OpenAI used prompts submitted by users to the GPT API). The prompts are passed through the language model trained in the previous section to new text to generate new text.

> Human annotators are used to rank the new text outputs from the LM. There are multiple methods for ranking the text. One method that has been successful is to have users compare generated text from two language models conditioned on the same prompt. By comparing model outputs in head-to-head matchups, an [ELO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elo_rating_system) system can be used to generate a ranking of the models and outputs relative to each-other. This ELO score, which can also be represented in a preference probability or other forms, is a scalar value that can be used as the target in supervised learning of the preference model. In practice, it’s normal for the reward to be a normalized version of the ELO ranking, which is better regularized for training.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Human annotators rank the new text outputs from the LM. There are multiple methods for ranking the text. One successful method is to have users compare the generated text from two language models conditioned on the same prompt. By comparing model outputs in head-to-head matchups, an [ELO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elo_rating_system) system can be used to rank the models and outputs relative to each other. This ELO score, which can also be represented in a preference probability or other forms, is a scalar value that can be used as the target in supervised learning of the preference model. In practice, it’s normal for the reward to be a normalized version of the ELO ranking, which is better regularized for training.
```

> An interesting artifact of this process is that the successful RLHF systems to date have all used language model architectures of similar sizes to the text generation model for the reward model. An intuition would be that these preference models need to have similar capacity to understand the text given to them as a model would need in order to generate said text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An interesting artifact of this process is that the successful RLHF systems to date have all used language model architectures of similar sizes to the text generation model for the reward model. An intuition would be that these preference models must have a similar capacity to understand the text given to them, as a model would need to generate said text.
```

> At this point in the RLHF system, we have an initial language model that can be used to generate text and a preference model that takes in any text and assigns it a score of how well humans perceive it. Next, we use **reinforcement learning (RL)** to optimize the original language model with respect to the reward model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point in the RLHF system, we have an initial language model that can generate text and a preference model that takes in any text and assigns it a score of how well humans perceive it. Next, we use **reinforcement learning (RL)** to optimize the original language model with respect to the reward model.
```

<p align="center">
    <img src="assets/120_intro-to-rlhf/rlhf.png" width="650" />
</p>

Optionally, RLHF can continue from this point by iteratively updating the reward model and the policy together. As the RL policy updates, users can continue to rank these outputs versus earlier versions of the model. Most papers do not discuss implementing this operation, as the deployment mode needed to collect this type of data only works for dialogue agents with access to an engaged user base. Anthropic discusses this option as *Iterated Online RLHF* (see the original [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.05862)), where iterations of the policy are included in the ELO ranking system across models. This introduces complex dynamics of the policy and reward model evolving over time, which represents a complex and open research question.

> # Open-source tools for RLHF

Reviewer: Maybe also share again the OS dataset for this

There are already a few well-maintained repositories for RLHF. The primary repositories are Transformers Reinforcement Learning ([TRL](https://github.com/lvwerra/trl)), [TRLX](https://github.com/CarperAI/trlx) which originated as a fork of TRL, and Reinforcement Learning for Language models ([RL4LM](https://github.com/allenai/RL4LMs)).

TRL is designed to fine-tune pretrained LMs in the HuggingFace ecosystem with PPO, and TRLX is an expanded fork of TRL built by [CarperAI](https://carper.ai/) to handle larger models for both online and offline training. At the moment, TRLX is the only API that is capable of production-ready RLHF at the scales required for LLM deployment (e.g. 33Billion parameters). Future versions of TRLX will allow for language models up to 200B parameters. As such, interfacing with TRLX is optimized for machine learning engineers with experience at this scale.

RL4LM offers a wide variety of RL algorithms, natural language processing benchmarks, and metrics for evaluating models. RL4LM, like TRL, does not have the distributed training code required to operate PPO on large models (e.g. 10B+ parameters).

# What’s next for RLHF?

> While these techniques are extremely promising, extremely impactful, and have caught the attention of the biggest research labs in AI, there are still clear limitations. The models, while better, can still output text that is harmful or factually inaccurate without any notion of uncertainty. This imperfection represents a long-term challenge and motivation for RLHF – operating in an inherently human problem domain means there will never be a clear final line to cross for the model to be labeled as *complete*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While these techniques are extremely promising and impactful and have caught the attention of the biggest research labs in AI, there are still clear limitations. The models, while better, can still output harmful or factually inaccurate text without any uncertainty. This imperfection represents a long-term challenge and motivation for RLHF – operating in an inherently human problem domain means there will never be a clear final line to cross for the model to be labeled as *complete*.
```

> When deploying a system using RLHF, gathering the human preference data is quite expensive due to the mandatory and thoughtful human component. RLHF performance is only as good as the quality of its human annotations, which takes on two varieties: human generated text, such as for fine-tuning the initial LM in IntstructGPT, and labels of human preferences between model outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deploying a system using RLHF, gathering the human preference data is quite expensive due to the mandatory and thoughtful human component. RLHF performance is only as good as the quality of its human annotations, which takes on two varieties: human-generated text, such as fine-tuning the initial LM in InstructGPT, and labels of human preferences between model outputs.
```

> Generating well-written human text answering specific prompts is very costly, as it often requires hiring part-time staff (rather than being able to rely on product users or crowdsourcing). Thankfully, the scale of data used in training the reward model for most applications of RLHF (~50k labeled preference samples) is not as expensive, but it is still a higher cost than academic labs would likely be able to afford. Currently there only exists one large-scale dataset for RLHF on a general language model (from [Anthropic](https://huggingface.co/datasets/Anthropic/hh-rlhf)) and a couple smaller scale task specific datasets (such as summarization data from [OpenAI](https://github.com/openai/summarize-from-feedback)). A second challenge of data for RLHF is that human annotators can often disagree, adding a substantial potential variance to the training data without a ground truth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generating well-written human text answering specific prompts is very costly, as it often requires hiring part-time staff (rather than being able to rely on product users or crowdsourcing). Thankfully, the scale of data used in training the reward model for most applications of RLHF (~50k labeled preference samples) is not as expensive. However, it is still a higher cost than academic labs would likely be able to afford. Currently, there only exists one large-scale dataset for RLHF on a general language model (from [Anthropic](https://huggingface.co/datasets/Anthropic/hh-rlhf)) and a couple of smaller-scale task-specific datasets (such as summarization data from [OpenAI](https://github.com/openai/summarize-from-feedback)). The second challenge of data for RLHF is that human annotators can often disagree, adding a substantial potential variance to the training data without ground truth.
```

> With these limitations, there are still huge swaths of unexplored design options that could enable RLHF to take substantial strides. Many of these fall within the domain of improving the RL optimizer. PPO is a relatively old algorithm, but there are no structural reasons that other algorithms could offer benefits and permutations on the existing RLHF workflow. One large cost of the feedback portion fine-tuning the LM policy is that every generated piece of text from the policy needs to be evaluated on the reward model (as it acts like part of the environment in the standard RL framework). To avoid these costly forward passes of a large model, offline RL could be used as a policy optimizer. Recently, new algorithms have emerged, such as [implicit language Q-learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.11871) (ILQL), that fit particularly well with this type of optimization. Other core trade-offs in the RL process like exploration-exploitation balance have also not been documented. Exploring these directions would at least develop substantial understanding for how RLHF functions, if not additionally providing improved performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With these limitations, huge swaths of unexplored design options could still enable RLHF to take substantial strides. Many of these fall within the domain of improving the RL optimizer. PPO is a relatively old algorithm, but there are no structural reasons that other algorithms could offer benefits and permutations on the existing RLHF workflow. One large cost of the feedback portion of fine-tuning the LM policy is that every generated piece of text from the policy needs to be evaluated on the reward model (as it acts like part of the environment in the standard RL framework). To avoid these costly forward passes of a large model, offline RL could be used as a policy optimizer. Recently, new algorithms have emerged, such as [implicit language Q-learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.11871) (ILQL), that fit particularly well with this type of optimization. Other core trade-offs in the RL process, like exploration-exploitation balance, have also not been documented. Exploring these directions would at least develop a substantial understanding of how RLHF functions and, if not, provide improved performance.
```

> 

Reviewer: Maybe also add a link to tuesday's livestream
